The midibridge is a Javascript API for interacting with the midi devices on your computer. 

It provides methods for detecting the midi devices and for connecting these devices with each other.

The midibridge itself is considered a midi device as well, so it can be connected to the detected devices.

The midibridge can generate and send midi events to midi output devices, and receive midi events from midi input devices.

The midibridge can also filter and alter midi events. 

Recording and playing back midi events with a sequencer will be added in later versions.

A midi output device is a physical output port on your computer, a virtual output port or a software synthesizer. It can also be a sequencer, a file or a function.

A midi input device is a physical or virtual input port, a sequencer, a file or a function.

A midi device can be both in- and output. The midibridge itself for instance is both in- and output because it can send and receive midi events.

The actual interaction with the midi devices on your computer is done by a Java applet. The midibridge automatically adds the applet to your webpage.

The midibridge has no visual parts, it is 'headless' code. You could say the midibridge enables you to write a 'front-end' on top of the applet. 

Midi Devices -> Java Applet -> Javascript Midibridge API -> a GUI in Javascript, Flash, SVG, C# (Silverlight)

Because the midibridge is written in native Javascript, you can use it conflict-free with any Javascript framework.


The only files you need to get started are:

/lib/midibridge-0.5.4.min.js
/java/midiapplet.jar


/lib/MidiBridge.js is the non-minified version of /lib/midibridge-0.5.4.min.js

The index.html file shows you how you embed the midibridge in your html page; you can use this basic example as a starting point of your own code.

In the /examples folder you will find the code examples that i have used in the quick start guide and the documentation on my blog, see:

http://www.abumarkub.net/abublog/?p=399 

